Mobile Web 2022 chapter (#3126)
HTTPArchive/almanac.httparchive.org: src/content/en/2022/mobile-web.md

#TODO - Review and update chapter description
description: Mobile Web chapter of the 2022 Web Almanac, focusing on accessibility and performance.
authors: [Suzzicks]
reviewers: [dwsmart, foxdavidj, hemanth]
analysts: [siakaramalegos, rviscomi]
editors: [rviscomi]
translators: []
results: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GB39gbyOilTSvgJHVdY8zwxwaFdsUB5iaD29cMwkdDY/
Suzzicks_bio: Cindy Krum is the CEO and Founder of MobileMoxie. She specializes in mobile SEO, app SEO (ASO), and anticipating and explaining changes in Google before they are announced.
featured_quote: It is not enough to simply pay lip-service to the concept of mobile-first design and development; these concepts need to continue to be embraced and pushed when necessary. They also need to experience their own growth—outside of the web scenario to larger elements of business planning, marketing, strategy, and communication.
featured_stat_1: 67%
featured_stat_label_1: Websites receiving more mobile traffic than desktop
featured_stat_2: 23%
featured_stat_label_2: Mobile pages with sufficient color contrast
featured_stat_3: 39%
featured_stat_label_3: Websites with good CWV on mobile
---

## Introduction

> Mobile access to web content is a critical aspect of internet access as a whole. In fact, in many situations and regions, it is the [default means of accessing the internet](https://www.gsma.com/mobileeconomy/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/280222-The-Mobile-Economy-2022.pdf). It is also often the [backbone of communication](https://www.investopedia.com/is-having-a-smartphone-a-requirement-in-2021-5190186) that happens seamlessly on platforms that use desktop, native app, and web apps to facilitate cross-device behavior and allows consumers to use their preferred method of access, simplifying and further democratizing information and communication online.

Reviewer: I convert absolute links (except MDN and Twitter as they have translation options) to HTML to allow hreflang to make it easier on translators later:

```suggestion
Mobile access to web content is a critical aspect of internet access as a whole. In fact, in many situations and regions, it is the <a hreflang="en" href="https://www.gsma.com/mobileeconomy/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/280222-The-Mobile-Economy-2022.pdf">default means of accessing the internet</a>. It is also often the <a hreflang="en" href="https://www.investopedia.com/is-having-a-smartphone-a-requirement-in-2021-5190186">backbone of communication</a> that happens seamlessly on platforms that use desktop, native app, and web apps to facilitate cross-device behavior and allows consumers to use their preferred method of access, simplifying and further democratizing information and communication online.
```

## Worldwide connectivity

As seems to always be the case, we are living in a more connected world this year than the world has ever experienced. The evolution of mobile technology and mobile web has been fueled not only by more than two years of even more digital-focused commerce caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, but also the growth and evolution of 5G communication networks, cloud and hybrid-cloud computing environments, and the growing adoption of digital and voice assistants, “casting” technology, and IoT.

New generations are getting involved in social media and have earlier access to mobile technology, and it is more readily socially acceptable than ever before. So, the growth of connectivity marches on, with no end in sight, and children, teens, and young adults of today—colloquially referred to as _digital natives_ because they were born into the digitally connected world—are sure to push the evolution of mobile technology, mobile web, and connectivity to new highs. All this progress makes the newest technology of today look foundational and fundamental for technologies of the future.

### Traffic from mobile versus desktop

> In keeping with the [Methodology](../methodology), the primary data source for this report is the HTTP Archive and the Chrome UX Report (CrUX). In cases where tablet data was included as a separate measurement from any data source, it was omitted, since it does not neatly fit in the primary mobile or desktop classifications and can add confusion and complexity when interpreting or contrasting mobile and desktop information that is more neatly segmented out. Refer to the [CrUX documentation](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/crux/methodology/#user-eligibility) for more information about eligible mobile platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In keeping with the [Methodology](../methodology), the primary data source for this report is the HTTP Archive and the Chrome UX Report (CrUX). In cases where tablet data was included as a separate measurement from any data source, it was omitted, since it does not neatly fit in the primary mobile or desktop classifications and can add confusion and complexity when interpreting or contrasting mobile and desktop information that is more neatly segmented out. Refer to the <a hreflang="en" href="https://developer.chrome.com/docs/crux/methodology/#user-eligibility">CrUX documentation</a> for more information about eligible mobile platforms.
```

{{ figure_markup(
    image="pct-mobile-traffic-rank.png",
    caption="Annual comparison of the percent of websites that receive more mobile traffic than desktop, segmented by popularity ranking.",
    description="Bar chart showing slightly more websites in 2022 having more mobile traffic than desktop, across the top 1,000, 10,000, 100,000, and 1,000,000 most popular website ranks. The percentages in 2022 are 88%, 89%, 86%, and 82% across these ranks, respectively. Across all websites, the percentage fell in 2022 to 67%, down from 77% in 2021.",
    chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vQ2iu1w8TLfOTLCQ1O-d74ku9NirGCQJNeO789uKX1-M6N053ASsz2tXWPvU1twhScsa3rxWF7_7OBn/pubchart?oid=554992534&format=interactive",
    sheets_gid="2028613834",
    sql_file="mobile_greater_than_desktop.sql"
  )
}}

> Across the most popular ranks, the percentage of sites with more mobile traffic than desktop traffic has increased relative to [last year](https://almanac.httparchive.org/en/2021/mobile-web#traffic-use-by-popularity). In 2022, 88% of the top 1,000 most popular sites receive more traffic from mobile devices than desktop, up from about 85% in 2021. And among the top 10,000 most popular sites, 89% of them receive more traffic from mobile devices and that is up from about 86% in 2021 - so roughly a 3% increase in sites that receive more mobile traffic than desktop in both of those to top-popularity ranking groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Across the most popular ranks, the percentage of sites with more mobile traffic than desktop traffic has increased relative to [last year](../2021/mobile-web#traffic-use-by-popularity). In 2022, 88% of the top 1,000 most popular sites receive more traffic from mobile devices than desktop, up from about 85% in 2021. And among the top 10,000 most popular sites, 89% of them receive more traffic from mobile devices and that is up from about 86% in 2021 - so roughly a 3% increase in sites that receive more mobile traffic than desktop in both of those to top-popularity ranking groups.
```

> According to Oberlo, about [58%](https://www.oberlo.com/statistics/mobile-internet-traffic) of web traffic in 2022 is from mobile devices. The consistent growth and pervasiveness of these statistics is a clear indication of the obvious increasing importance in the overall evaluation of mobile web access and interactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to Oberlo, about <a hreflang="en" href="https://www.oberlo.com/statistics/mobile-internet-traffic">58%</a> of web traffic in 2022 is from mobile devices. The consistent growth and pervasiveness of these statistics is a clear indication of the obvious increasing importance in the overall evaluation of mobile web access and interactions.
```

{{ figure_markup(
    image="input-types.png",
    caption="Adoption of input types.",
    description="Bar chart showing adoption of input types, with text on 71% of pages, hidden on 53%, submit on 38%, email on 27%, unknown (or N/A) on 27%, checkbox on 27%, search on 25%, password on 13%, tel on 6%, radio on 6%, and button on 5%.",
    chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vQ2iu1w8TLfOTLCQ1O-d74ku9NirGCQJNeO789uKX1-M6N053ASsz2tXWPvU1twhScsa3rxWF7_7OBn/pubchart?oid=1619844270&format=interactive",
    sheets_gid="938177161",
    sql_file="popular_mobile_input_types.sql"
  )
}}

> Since modulating keyboards with input fields is much more important on mobile than it is on desktop, we track the most popular mobile input types across their archive of websites. In 2022, `text` was still the most popular input type, used on 71% of pages, which is down slightly from [last year](https://almanac.httparchive.org/en/2021/mobile-web#type-declarations) at 73%. `hidden` was the next most common input type at 53% of pages, then `submit` at 38%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since modulating keyboards with input fields is much more important on mobile than it is on desktop, we track the most popular mobile input types across their archive of websites. In 2022, `text` was still the most popular input type, used on 71% of pages, which is down slightly from [last year](../2021/mobile-web#type-declarations) at 73%. `hidden` was the next most common input type at 53% of pages, then `submit` at 38%.
```

## Mobile performance

One of the most complex problems that site owners have to address on the mobile web is performance, which is experienced as the delay that users incur when they request or interact with websites on smaller devices. Though they have evolved quite a lot, mobile devices still generally have less-powerful processors than larger devices and are often getting data over slower and less reliable internet connections. In addition, the probability that users may incur a cost for mobile data requests, especially if they go over a plan limit, makes efficiency important as a practical concern, beyond just its impact on user experience and speed.

### Core Web Vitals

> [Core Web Vitals](https://web.dev/vitals/) is a collection of performance metrics that Google compiles to evaluate different websites, and specifically, different [page templates](https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/9205520#page_groups) on websites to describe how they perform in both mobile and desktop page settings. The elements of Core Web Vitals include loading, interactivity, and layout stability.

Reviewer: Should we use page groups, as it's not always based on templates IIRC

```suggestion
[Core Web Vitals](https://web.dev/vitals/) is a collection of performance metrics that Google compiles to evaluate different websites, and specifically, different [page groups](https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/9205520#page_groups) on websites to describe how they perform in both mobile and desktop page settings. The elements of Core Web Vitals include loading, interactivity, and layout stability.
```

All three are aspects of how users perceive the performance of a page that can help or hinder the loading experience for users. This type of evaluation began in May of 2020, and these metrics are taken into account in Google’s ranking algorithm specifically as an aspect of the [page experience](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/experience/page-experience) evaluation, and thus, the metrics are organized around thresholds of performance that are either considered “good”, “needs improvement”, or “poor”. For a site to be considered “good”, 75% of visits must meet the prescribed thresholds for each of the Core Web Vitals metrics.

{{ figure_markup(
    image="good-cwv.png",
    caption="Annual comparison of the percent of websites having good Core Web Vitals on mobile.",
    description="Bar chart showing 24% of websites having good Core Web Vitals in 2020, 29% in 2021, and 39% in 2022.",
    chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vQ2iu1w8TLfOTLCQ1O-d74ku9NirGCQJNeO789uKX1-M6N053ASsz2tXWPvU1twhScsa3rxWF7_7OBn/pubchart?oid=1388234814&format=interactive",
    sheets_gid="381713804",
    sql_file="web_vitals_by_device.sql"
  )
}}

> The figure above shows a comparison of overall performance for the web in 2022, as it has changed for mobile and desktop measurements since 2020, when Core Web Vitals first launched. You can see that overall, mobile websites are consistently improving year over year. In 2022, 39% of websites have good Core Web Vitals experiences on mobile devices.  See the [Performance](../performance) chapter for a deeper look at what may have caused such a significant change this year.

Reviewer: This says "mobile and desktop" but chart only shows "mobile"?

Author: Rephrased

> The figure above shows a comparison of overall performance for the web in 2022, as it has changed for mobile and desktop measurements since 2020, when Core Web Vitals first launched. You can see that overall, mobile websites are consistently improving year over year. In 2022, 39% of websites have good Core Web Vitals experiences on mobile devices.  See the [Performance](../performance) chapter for a deeper look at what may have caused such a significant change this year.

Author: ```suggestion
The figure above shows how the overall performance of the web has changed since Core Web Vitals first launched in 2020. You can see that overall, mobile websites are consistently improving year over year. In 2022, 39% of websites have good Core Web Vitals experiences on mobile devices.  See the [Performance](../performance) chapter for a deeper look at what may have caused such a significant change this year.
```

#### Appropriately sized images

Using images that are sized properly for a mobile device has long been one of the easiest ways that anyone could improve mobile load time. In the early days of the mobile web, site owners would often simply send the same images to desktop users as they would for mobile users, because ultimately, mobile browsers would scale and resize the images to fit in the mobile rendering of the page. Unfortunately, this didn’t work well, because it ended up requiring a lot of extra data to send rich, high-quality images that were better suited for a desktop viewing experience.

{{ figure_markup(
    image="appropriately-sized-images.png",
    caption="Annual comparison of the percent of websites that have appropriately sized images.",
    description="Bar chart showing 59% of websites having properly sized images in 2020, 57% in 2021, and 54% in 2022.",
    chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vQ2iu1w8TLfOTLCQ1O-d74ku9NirGCQJNeO789uKX1-M6N053ASsz2tXWPvU1twhScsa3rxWF7_7OBn/pubchart?oid=1739495492&format=interactive",
    sheets_gid="1709663847",
    sql_file="correctly_sized_images.sql"
  )
}}

> Given Google’s increased focus on rewarding good performance with their Core Web Vitals program, you would expect that more sites would be optimizing their images. However, it’s interesting to see that sites are actually having fewer optimized images over time. The figure above shows that there is a decrease in the percentage of pages with properly sized images since [2020](https://almanac.httparchive.org/en/2020/mobile-web#images), when 59% of sites had properly sized images. But in 2022, that number is down to only 54%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given Google’s increased focus on rewarding good performance with their Core Web Vitals program, you would expect that more sites would be optimizing their images. However, it’s interesting to see that sites are actually having fewer optimized images over time. The figure above shows that there is a decrease in the percentage of pages with properly sized images since [2020](../2020/mobile-web#images), when 59% of sites had properly sized images. But in 2022, that number is down to only 54%.
```

#### Responsive images

Creating images that can be responsive to different screen sizes is a common way to handle mobile image sizing. Using responsive images is a great way for websites to handle even the most unique presentation scenarios, like viewing a website on a wide-screen TV, viewing a website on a connected digital assistant, or even on a small feature phone or handheld gaming system.

> There are two main methods for embedding images on a screen: the `img` element, and the more-expanded `[picture](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/picture)` element. The `picture` element offers a few more possibilities to include images based on certain criteria. The `[srcset](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLImageElement/srcset)` attribute is available on both elements and enables images to be conditionally included based on things like screen size and display density. Some browsers may also take bandwidth into account when choosing an appropriate image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two main methods for embedding images on a screen: the `img` element, and the more-expanded [`picture`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/picture) element. The `picture` element offers a few more possibilities to include images based on certain criteria. The [`srcset`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLImageElement/srcset) attribute is available on both elements and enables images to be conditionally included based on things like screen size and display density. Some browsers may also take bandwidth into account when choosing an appropriate image.
```

#### Lazy-loading

Lazy-loading is the process of assigning different loading priority levels to elements of a web page based on where they occur on a page. Without lazy loading, all of the elements and images on a page will eventually be loaded, but lazy loading allows images to be deferred until it is clear that they will be needed, based on where the user has scrolled to on the page. Lazy-loading is especially relevant on mobile devices, because common responsive design patterns will almost always stack content for a mobile rendering. The narrow nature of mobile screens ensures that many stacked elements of the page are pushed far down below the fold,  and may not be immediately necessary—especially if all the user wants to do is click a link in the top navigation. Lazy-loading eliminates that unnecessary data transfer, and the load time associated with it.

{{ figure_markup(

>     caption="Percent of mobile pages that contained images using `loading=&quot;lazy&quot;`.",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    caption='Percent of mobile pages that contained images using `loading="lazy"`.',
```

{{ figure_markup(
    image="good-fid.png",
    caption="Annual comparison of the percent of websites having good FID on mobile.",
    description="Bar chart showing 80% of websites having good FID in 2020, 90% in 2021, and 92% in 2022.",
    chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vQ2iu1w8TLfOTLCQ1O-d74ku9NirGCQJNeO789uKX1-M6N053ASsz2tXWPvU1twhScsa3rxWF7_7OBn/pubchart?oid=943430278&format=interactive",
    sheets_gid="381713804",
    sql_file="web_vitals_by_device.sql"
  )
}}

There has been a consistent growth in the percent of mobile sites that have “good” FID in the past three years, going from only 80% in 2020 to 90% in 2021, and reaching 92% in 2022.

#### Interaction to Next Paint (INP)

> [Interaction to Next Paint](https://web.dev/inp/), which is generally abbreviated as INP, is an experimental metric from Google that is used to measure responsiveness and response time on a page when a user interacts with it. A low INP is desirable because it means that the page was able to respond quickly to user interactions without substantial delays waiting for content to paint after it is requested. A “good” INP is 200 ms or less, and a poor one is anything over 500 ms. Eventually, INP could be added to the official Core Web Vitals metrics, but for now it is still being tested to make sure that it is a reliable and consistent metric that site owners will find useful.

Reviewer: Reads weird. Are there places where it's not always abbreivated to INP but abbreviated to something else (ItNP?)

```suggestion
[Interaction to Next Paint](https://web.dev/inp/) (INP) is an experimental metric from Google that is used to measure responsiveness and response time on a page when a user interacts with it. A low INP is desirable because it means that the page was able to respond quickly to user interactions without substantial delays waiting for content to paint after it is requested. A “good” INP is 200 ms or less, and a poor one is anything over 500 ms. Eventually, INP could be added to the official Core Web Vitals metrics, but for now it is still being tested to make sure that it is a reliable and consistent metric that site owners will find useful.
```
